---
title: Post 22 - Gotta hurry up
date: 2022-12-26
---
## Task 27, Day 22, <code>Attack Surface Reduction</code> Threats are failing all around me
Two to go...

### Attack Vectors
Tool, technique, or method used to attack a computer system or network. Attacks include but not limited to:
- Phishing emails
- DoS or DDos
- Web drive-by - flaws in web browsers that compromise the security of the victim by merely visiting a website
- Unpatched Vulns - web server or network interface

### Attack Surface
Surface area of the victim of an attack that can be impacted by an attack vector and cause damage. Attack surfaces generally contain:
- email server
- internet-facing web server
- End-user machines connected to internet
- Humans - manipulated or tricked by social engineering

### Attack Surface Reduction
Surface can not be eliminated without fleeing battlefield, but can be reduced. Consider Greek Phalanx - front of defending army covered by shields, walls/geography cover sides, leaving no room for attacker. In cybersecurity most secure computer is one that is shut down with cables removed. Need to focus on reduction, not elimination. 

### How to
Based on AoC occurences:

#### _Close the ranks_
Website defaced because of open SSH port, closed the port

#### _Put up shields_
SSH port was protected by password, but not strong enough to resist brute-forcing. Make brute-forcing more expensive and less feasible by implementing stronger password and timeout after X failed attempts.

#### _Control the flow of information_
GitHub repo with sensitive info, including credentials. Made information private, best practice to ensure credentials and sensitive info not committed to GitHub repos.

#### _Beware of deception_
Phishing emails when no phishing protection enabled. Enable filtering on server so mail identified as apoofed or phishing was dropped instead of delivered.

#### _Prepare for countering human error_
Delivered phishing email contained doc with malicious macros. Mitigate the risk by disabling macros on end-user machines to avoid malicious macro-based attacks.

#### _Strengthen every soldier_
Strenghtened network as whole, then used MS's Attack Surface Reduction rules built into Defender for Endpoint to build similar rules for own EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) platform. 

#### _Make the defense invulnerable_
Further strengthened by carryingout vuln scans highlighting vulns in internet-facing infrastructure. Patched the vulns.

### The Task
Get the flag by answering questions on static site and increasing defences. 

Task done, fun quiz, moving on.