---
title: Post 09 - PIVOT!
date: 2022-12-09
---
## Task 14, Day 09, <code>Pivoting</code> Dock the halls
Common way to tell if a compromised application is running in a docker container is checking if root dir has <code>/.dockerenv</code>.

### Metasploit
Common console commands for viewing and manipulating sessions:
- <code>sessions</code> - view sessions
- <code>sessions -u -1</code> - upgrade last opened session to Meterpreter
- <code>sessions -i session_id</code> - interact with a session
- <code>background</code> - background  current interactive session and return to Metasploit prompt

### Meterpreter
Meterpreter is an advanced payload that provides interactive access to a compromised system. Commands include:
- <code>sysinfo</code> - get info about remote system, i.e. OS
- <code>upload local_file.txt</code> - upload a file or directory
- <code>ipconfig</code> - display interfaces
- <code>resolve remote_service1 remote_service2</code> - resolve set of host names on the target to IP addresses. useful for pivoting

### Using Metasploit and Meterpreter
**M**eta**s**ploit **F**ramework - msfconsole to start Metaploit.
- <code>search module_name_part</code> - search for module
- <code>use module_name</code> - load module
- <code>info</code> - after using module will show info about module including options, description, CVE details, etc.
- <code>show options</code> - show available options
- <code>set rhost MACHINE_IP</code> - set target host IP
- <code>set verbose true</code> - turn on logging
- <code>set lhost LISTEN_IP</code> - set payload listening address; IP address of host running Metasploit
- <code>check</code> - check module
- <code>run</code> - run module

Can also set options in run command, i.e. for postgres_sql module: <code>run postgres://user:password@MACHINE_IP /datbase_name sql='select version()'</code>

Metasploit has an internal routing table modified with <code>route</code>, determines where to send traffic, allows pivoting. Meterpreter has separate route command that isn't the same. Need to background current Meterpreter to adjust Metasploit route.
Syntax: <code>route [add/remove] subnet netmask [comm/sid]</code>
- <code>route add 172.17.0.1/32 -1</code> - send packets destined for 172.17.0.1 to the latest opened session
- <code>route add 172.10.48/29 -1</code> - send packets destined for 172.28.101.48/29 subnet to the latest opened session
- <code>route print</code> - output routing table

### Socks Proxy
intermediate server that supports relaying network traffic between two machines. Can run socks proxy locally on pentester's machine via Metasploit or directly on compromised server.
<code>use auxiliary/server/socks_proxy
run srvhost=127.0.0.1 srvport-9050 version=4a</code>

Tools like curl support sending requests through a socks proxy via the <code>--proxy</code> flag
<code> curl --proxy socks4a://localhost:9050 http://MACHINE_IP</code>

If tool doesn't natively support, ProxyChains canintercept request and route through proxy. i.e. with Nmap:
<code>proxychains -q nmap -n -sT -Pn -p 22,80,443,5432 MACHINE_IP,</code>

### The Task
Get info to find potential vulns, and prove level of security.

