---
title: Post 18 - Searching with Sigma
date: 2022-12-19
---
## Task 23, Day 18, <code>Sigma</code> Lumberjack Lenny Learns New Rules
Threat detection involves proactively prusuing and analysing abnormal activity within an ecosystem to identify malicious signs of compromise or intrusion within a network. 

**IOCs** - Indicators of compromise.

### Attack Scenario
Logs pointed to a likely attack and can be mapped to the UKC. Use Sigma application to chop logs. Sigma is an open-source generic signature language for describing log events in a structured format. Format uses YAML, markup language with a designed syntax allowing for quick sharing of detection methods by security analysts. Common factors of note about YAML files:
- YAML is case-sensitive
- Files should have the <code>.yml</code> extention
- Spaces are used for indentation and not tabs
- Comments are attributed using <code>#</code>
- Key-value pairs denoted using <code>:</code>
- Array elements denoted using <code>-</code>

Sigma rules are vendor-agnostic, so the rules can be converted to a format that fits the preferred SIEM. 

### Sigma Rule Syntax
Rules guided by a given order of required/optional fields and values that create the structure for mapping needed queries. 
- Title - names the rulle based on what it's supposed to detect
- ID - globally unique ID that is mainly used to maintain the order of identification for the rules submitted to the public repository (in UUID format)
- Status - The stage in which the rule maturity is at while in use
    - *Stable:* rule may be used in prod and dashboards
    - *Test:* trials being done to the rule and could require fine-tuning
    - *Experimental:* rule is very generic and is being tested. Could lead to false results, be noisy, and identify exciting events
    - *Deprecated:* rule has been replaced and would no longer yield accurate results
    - *Unsupported:* rule is not usable in its current state (unique correlation log, homemade fields)
- Description - provides more context about rule and its intended purpose
- Logsource - describes the log to be used for the detection. optional attributes:
    - *Product:* selects all outputs of a certain product (i.e. Windows, Apache, etc.)
    - *Category:* selects the log files written by the selected product (i.e. firewalls, web, antivirus)
    - *Service:* selects only subset of the logs (i.e. *sshd* on Linux, *Security* on Windows)
    - *Definition:* describes the log source and its applied configs
- Detection - required field in the detection rule describes the parameters of the malicious activity we're looking for. Two main parts:
    - *Search identifiers:* fields and values the detection should search for. Can be enhanced with different modifiers piped on end. (Main type known as Transfomation modifiers, i.e. contains, endswith, startswith, all)
    - *Condition expression:* sets action to be taken on detection, such as selection or filtering. 
- FalsePositives - list of known fales positives that may occur based on log data
- Level - severity with which the team should take the activity written under rule. Informational -> Low -> Medium -> High -> Critical
- Tags - adds information used to categorize the rule. Common tags include tactics and techniques from MITRE ATT&CK, defined list from Sigma devs at https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma/wiki/Tags

Tools include Sigmac (deprecated), pySigma, and Uncoder.io.

### The Task
Use THM Sigma tool to generate rules/queries and get flags and details about each step of attack.

Flags gotten, fun had.