---
title: Post 16 - Fix it don't break it
date: 2022-12-16
tags:
    - sql
    - mysql
    - sqli
---
## Task 21, Day 16, <code>Secure Coding</code> SQLi's the king, the carolers sing
SQL is traditional language used to query DBs. Any app that relies on a DB needs to create SQL sentences on the fly to retrieve information. SQL syntax supposed to resemble straightforward English sentences.

### Sample Queries
<code>SELECT * FROM toys;</code><br>
Retrieve all columns from table "toys"<br>
<code>SELECT name, quantity From toys;</code><br>
Retrieve "name" and "quantity" columns from table "toys"

All rows returned for columns in previous examples.

<code>SELECT name, quantity FROM toys WHERE quntity >= 20;</code><br>
Retrieve rows in columns "name" and "quantity" with quantities of 20 or more

### Sending SQL Queries from PHP
First connect to DB. PHP includes <code>mysqli_connect()</code> function. Receives IP or name of DB server (<code>$server</code>), then username (<code>$user</code>), password (<code>$pwd</code>), finally schema to use (<code>$schema</code>). Function returns connection handler that acts as variable that holds connection information to the DB to send further SQL queries.<br>
```sql
$server="db";
$user="logistics_user";
$pwd="somePass123";
$schema="logistics";


$db=mysqli_connect($server,$user,$pwd,$schema);
```

Once connection is made, issuse SQL queries using <code>mysqli_query()</code> function. First parameter passed to this function is connection handler, second parameter is the query string.<br>
```sql
$query="select * from users where id=1";
$elves_rs=mysqli_query($db,$query);
```

Executing query returns SQL result set stored in the <code>$elves_rs</code> variable. Sample web address usage: http://svr.server.tld/webapp/elf.php?id=2
provides query: 
<code>$query="select * from users where id=".$_GET['id'];
$elves_rs=mysqli_query($db,$query);</code>

Coding this way introduces a SQLi vuln that can allow dumping entire DB. Code shouldn't take untrusted code from user and add directly to SQL query with no questions asked.

More details on SQL injection here: <https://tryhackme.com/room/sqlinjectionlm>

### Fixing the App
#### Data Type Validation
One of the easiest and most effective ways to prevent SQL injections is to make sure user manipulated data is the type expected. If input data should be an integer, can use <code>intval()</code> to pull only integers from strings and if none return 0. 

#### Prepared Statements
Separate the syntax of the SQL sentence from the parameters used and allow the DB to put pieces together instead of depending on PHP or the programmer. Instead of:
```sql
$query="select * from toys where name like '%".$_GET['q']."%' or description like '%".$_GET['q']."%'";
$toys_rs=mysqli_query($db,$query);
```
use
```sql
$query="select * from toys where name like ? or description like ?";
$stmt=mysqli_prepare($db, $query);
```

<code>?</code> tells DB to run a query that takes two parameters as inputs. Query gets passed to <code>mysqli_prepare()</code> function, which prepares a statement with given syntax. Executing requires MySQL knowing what value to put to each placeholder. Can attach using <code>mysqli_stmt_bind_param()</code> function. Requires two parameters, first is reference to the prepared statement. Second is a string composed of one letter per placeholder to be bound. Letters indicate each variables type (i.e. s for string, i for int, d for float). Then pass the variables themselves, adding as many variables as placeholders defined with <code>?</code> in query.

<code>$q = "%".$_GET['q']."%";   
mysqli_stmt_bind_param($stmt, 'ss', $q, $q);</code>

Once statement is created and parameters bound, then use <code>mysqli_stmt_execute()</code> to execute. It's only parameter is <code>$stmt</code>. Once executed, retrieve result set with <code>mysqli_stmt_get_result()</code> with <code>$stmt></code> as only parameter.

### The Task
Find the flags while fixing the vulns. Two flags with code from task, two flags from own devices.