---
title: Post 06 - What what the email
date: 2022-12-07
---
## Task 11, Day 06, <code>Email Analysis</code> It's beginning to look a lot like phishing
Two main concerns in email analysis:
- Security issues - Identifying suspicious/abnormal/malicious patterns in emails
- Performance issues - Identifying delivery and delay issues

### Basic Header Structure
- From - Sender address
- To - Receiver address (includes CC/BCC)
- Date - Sent timestamp
- Subject - Subject line
- Return path - Reply-to address
- Domain Key and DKIM Signatures - Email sigs provided by email services to identify and authenticate emails
- SPF - Shows server that sent the email
- Message-ID - Unique ID of email
- MIME-Version - Used MIME version. Helps in understanding "non-text" contents and attachments
- X-Headers - receiver mail providers add to field. Usually experimental
- X-Received - Mail servers email passed through
- X-Spam Status - Spam score of email
- X-Mailer - Email client name

### Basic Process
- From, To, CC fields have valid addresses? - If no, red flag
- From and To fields same? - Same sender and recipient = red flag
- From and Return-Path same? - Different values are red flag
- Email sent from correct server? - should come from official servers of sender
- Message-ID field exist and valid? - Empty/malformed = red flag
- Hyperlinks redirect to suspicious/abnormal sites? - Suspicous links and redirects are a paddling
- Attachments consist or contain malware - you better believe that's a paddling. Look for file hashes marked as suspicios/malicious by sandboxes

Also need email header parser tool, can use Sublime Text with some config. Sublime allows viewinf email files without opening or executing any linked attachments/commands. Automatically recognizes .eml and .msg files. If .txt file, can change "plain text" at bottom right to "email header".

Can also use emlAnalyzer to view body and analyse attachments. Can show headers, body, embedded URLs, plaintext and html data, and atytachments. Syntax: <code>emlAnalyzer -i /path-to-file/filename --header [show header] -u [show URLs] --text [show cleartext data] --extract-all [extract all attachments]</code>
Path can be full or relative.

Can use OSINT sources for reputation check on sender and reply-to addresses (i.e. <code>https://emailrep.io</code>)

Can check out suspicious URLs and attachments at sites like:
- VirusTotal - cloud-based detection toolset and sandbox environment
- InQuest - network and file analysis through threat analytics
- IPinfo.io - detailed IP address info focusing on geolocation and ISP
- Talos Reputation - Cisco Talos IP reputation check service
- Urlscan.io - analyzes websites by simulating regular user behavior
- Browserling - browser sandbox for testing suspicious/malicious links
- Wannabrowser - browser sandbox for testing suspicious/malicious links

Body/attachment analysis - can use sha256sum tool/utility to calculate a file's hash, then check on VirusTotal and InQuest. On VirusTotal check the Behavior tab. On InQuest check Indicator Lookup.

### The Task
Gain header info and analyse file info. 

All flags gotten.