---
title: Post 30 - More NFS
date: 2023-01-04
tags:
    - NFS
    - enumerating
    - exploiting
---
### Enumeratinging NFS
First tool needed on a local machine to do more advanced enumeration is nfs-common package (Linux?). Important to have on any machine that uses NFS, as client or server. Includes lockd, ststd, showmount, nfsstat, gssd, idmapd, and mount.nfs. Primary concern for enumerating purposes is showmount and mount.nfs because they're most useful for extracting information from the NFS share. 

Before mounting, need to create a directory to mount into (i.e. <code>/tmp/mount</code>). Mount items with <code>sudo mount -t nfs IP:share /directory/location -nolock</code>. 
- -t nfs - type of device to mount, and what method
- IP - IP Address of the server
- share - name of share to mount
- -nolock - specifies not to use NLM locking (Network Lock Manager)

### The Task
Gather information about NFS server for task. 

When using nmap, look for nfs-acl port.

Logged in to VM through ssh.

---
### Exploiting NFS
If accessing through low privilege shell and there's an NFS share, can possibly escalate privs depending on share's config. 

#### Root_squash
By default Root Squashing is enabled on NFS shares and prevents anyone connecting from having root access to the NFS volume by assigning "nfsnobody" on connection, least privelege. If squashing is turned off, it can allow creation of SUID bit files. Files with SUID bit set can run with permissions of the file owner/group, we make it super-user.

#### Method
Upload file(s) to NFS share while controlling permissions of file(s). If it is bash shell executable, can log in through ssh and execute file to gain root shell. 

### The Task
Follow the method using bash from creator's GitHub until flag is retrieved.

Move bash executable to mounted share. From directory as root: <code>sudo chown root bash</code>

Set SUID bit with: <code>sudo chmod +s bash</code>

May need to do same to add execution to file. 

Got the flag and, hopefully, good notes.