---
title: Post 33 - M-m-m MySa SQL
date: 2023-01-07
tags:
    - MySQL
---
### Understanding MySQL
Relational database management system (RDbMS) based on Structured Query Language (SQL). 

**Database** - persistant, organized collection of structured data. Always knew what it was, never contemplated how to describe or define it before.

**RDbMS** - relational aspect is that all data is organized into tables, and every table relates in someway to each other's "primary key" or other "key" factors.

MySQL is made up of the server and utility programs that help in the administration of MySQL databases. Server handles instructions like creating, editing, and accessing data. Process:
1. MySQL creates a database for storing and manipulating data, defining the relationship of each table.
2. Clients make requests by making specific statements in SQL.
3. Server responds to the client with whatever information has been requested.

Runs on various platforms whether Linux or Windows, and is commonly a back end database for websites and is an essential component of the LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP).

Further reading:
<https://dev.mysql.com/doc/dev/mysql-server/latest/PAGE_SQL_EXECUTION.html><br>
<https://www.w3schools.com/php/php_mysql_intro.asp>

I feel kind of bad taking notes on some of these introductory lessons because it feels almost word for word what someone typed out to explain it but in this case PoloMints wrote it so simply and straightforward I can't cut much out and still be able to remember what was taught.