---
title: Post 45 - Proooxyyyy
date: 2023-01-21
tags:
    - burp
    - burp suite
    - proxy
---
Day 53 and I'm still saying "I'm not a robot" in a Frank Drebin voice. Today I'm sticking to one task, **Introduction to the Burp Proxy**.

The Proxy is the most fundamental and important of the tools in Burp Suite. It allows capturing requests and responses between ourselves and the target. They can be manipulated before passing or just examined and passed straight through. Capturing and holding responses is not on by default. 

Once a request is captured we can forward or drop it, but also send it to another Burp module, copy it as a cURL command, save it to a file, and more. Even with Intercept off, Burp Suite's default is to log requests made through the proxy. Can be useful for going back and analysing previous requests, even if we didn't specifically capture them at the original time.

Burp also captures and logs WebSocket communication which can be viewed by going to "HTTP History" and "WebSockets history" sub-tabs.Any requests here can also be sent to other modules.

"Options" sub-tab allows setting rules among other things. For instance, can set up "Intercept responses based on the following rules: <code>Or Request Was Intercepted</code>" to catch responses to all requests that we intercepted by the proxy. "<code>And URL Is in target scope</code>" is another good default rulle to use.

"Options" also includes "Match and Replace" section that allows performing regexes on incoming and outgoing requests. This can allow emulating a different web browser for requests or removing cookies being sent in responses. 

### The Questions
Qeustion about Proxy and what keybind is for that particular feature.