---
title: Post 34 - MySQL
date: 2023-01-08
tags:
    - MySQL
    - enumerating
    - exploiting
    - metasploit
---
### Enumerating MySQL
MySQL typically not the first point of call in a network, definitely unlikely as a path in a CTF. For purposes of this lesson, credentials were found while enumerating subdomains of a web server but they didn't match up to an SSH user, so trying them with MySQL. If trying to use non-Metasploit tools:
<https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/mysql-enum.html><br>
<https://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/23081>

### The Task
Enumerate to get the information needed to exploit the victim, starting with nmap. In this case <code>nmap -v -A target</code> was enough to find the port MySQL was running on. 

Connect to MySQL session with <code>mysql -h [IP Address] -u [username] -p</code> where -p prompts for a password. Exit session and begin Metasploit work.

Once in the console, <code>search fullname:mysql_sql</code> to find the full module name. Select with <code>use #</code>. <code>set</code> options. In this case, it doesn't work unless *username* and *password* are set even though they're not required options. Can change the *sql* option to show databases.

---
### Exploiting MySQL
Taking stock:
- MySQL server credentials
- version of MySQL running
- number of databases and their names

**MySQL specific terminology** - Schema is synonymous with database. Create schema command == create database command. Some other database products draw a distinction, schema being only a part of a database: the tables and other objects owned by a single user. (Oracle)

Hashes, simply put, are product of a cryptographic algorithm to turn a variable length input into a fixed length output. MySQL hashes can also be used to index data in a hash table. Creates and index significantly smaller than the original data allowing for more efficient search and access.

In this case, hashes extracted will be just a way of storing passwords not in plaintext. 

### The Task
Dig around, get the flag.

Use mysql_schemadump module. Got list off tables and columns.<br>
Use mysql_hashdump module. Reveals another non-standard username, and the password hash. Copy hash to a text file.<br>
Run Jack the Ripper against it: <code>john file.txt</code>. Returns password for user.<br>
Can try this password against other things in system because of potential password reuse, in this case SSH.<br>
SSH connection led to flag retrieval.

### Further Learning
<https://web.mit.edu/rhel-doc/4/RH-DOCS/rhel-sg-en-4/ch-exploits.html><br>
<https://www.nextgov.com/cybersecurity/2019/10/nsa-warns-vulnerabilities-multiple-vpn-services/160456/>

That finishes Network Services 2. Next up on the path is How Websites Work.