---
title: Post 52 - Is that a log or a big snake?
date: 2023-12-02
tags:
    - logging
    - python
---
## Task 8, Day 02, <code>Log analysis</code> O Data, All Ye Faithful

### Data Science
Often incvolves programming, statistics, and the use of AI to examine and understand trends and patterns. Data scientist roles:

|Role|Description|
|:---:|:---------:|
|Data Collection|Collecting raw data (i.e. List of recent transactions)|
|Data Processing|Turning raw data from collection into standard format|
|Data Mining<br>(Clustering/Classification)|Create relationships between data, find patterns and correlations|
|Analysis<br>(Exploratory/Confirmatory)|Bulk of analysis. Look for answers and projections|
|Communication<br>(Visualisation)|Visualize data as charts, tables, maps, etc.|

### Data Science in Cybersecurity
Analysing data like log events leads to an intelligent understanding of ongoing events in the org. Other uses include:
- **SIEM:** SIEMs collect and correlate large amounts of data to give a wider understanging of an org.
- **Threat trend analysis:** Track and understand emerging threats.
- **Predictive analysis:** Analyse historical events to create a potential picture of future threats. Forwarned = prepared.

### Jupyter Notebooks
Open source documents with code, text, and terminal functionality; easily shared and executed across systems. Good way to demonstrate and explain proof of concepts in Cybersecurity. Notebooks consist of cell that can be executed one at a time, step by step. Cells indicated by "In [#]" where number indexes to next higher number after successful completion. Can rearrange cells by grabbing around the cell number.

Lists are used to store a collection of values as a variable.

#### Pandas
Series - Data structure of key-value pair.

Turn data set from list variable (<code>transportation</code>) into a series by:
1. creating a new variable <code>transportation_series</code>
2. invoke Pandas' Series function <code>pandas.Series</code>
3. provide variable <code>transportation</code> to function
4. print out series <code>print(transportation_series)</code>

```python
transportation_series = pd.Series(transportation)

print(transportation_series)
```

Print also returns <code>dtype:</code> which include:
- objects = strings(words)
- int64 = integers(numbers)

DataFrames are a grouping of series similar to spreadsheet or database. Provide data similar to:<br>
```python
data = [['Ben', 24, 'UK'],
        ['Jacob', 32, 'US']
        ['Alice', 19, 'Germany']]
```
Convert to dataframe variable <code>df</code> by:<br>
```python
df = pd.DataFrame(data, columns=['Name', 'Age', 'Country of Residence'])
```

Return all data by calling variable (i.e. <code>df</code>).

Can also return a specific line with <code>df.loc[#]</code> where # is the line number (starting with 0).

Can then group dataframes by column, row, or comparing with <code>groupby</code>.

Group by two columns and sum them similar to:<br>
```python
df.groupby(['Department'])['Prize'].sum()
```

Group by two columns and provide summary of data in percentile:<br>
```python
df.groupby(['Department'])['Prize'].describe()
```

#### Matplotlib
Allows creation of visualisations of data such as bar charts, histograms, pie charts, waterfalls, etc. If using within Jupyter notebook begin with <code>%matplotlib inline</code> otherwise it generates plots elsewhere. Create plots with <code>plot()</code> function. Similar to:<br>
```python
plt.xlabel('Months of the year')
plt.ylabel('Number of toys produced')
plt.title('A Line Graph Showing Number of Toys Produced Monthly')
plt.plot(['January', 'February', 'March', 'April'],[8,14,23,40])
```

Combine Pandas and Matplotlib to create a bar graph based on a csv file similar to:<br>
```python
spreadsheet = pd.read_csv('drinks.csv')

drinks = spreadsheet['Drink']
votes = spreadsheet['Vote']

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6)) # adjust as necessary for readability

plt.barh(drinks, votes, color='skyblue') # barh for horizontal, barv for vertical.
plt.xlabel('Number of Votes')
plt.ylabel('Name of Drink')
plt.title('Bar Graph Showing Favorite Drinks')
plt.gca().invert_yaxis() # optionally invert the y-axis.
```

### The Task
Analyse a packet capture saved as a csv.
Answers gotten.

#### Recommended room: Intro to Log Analysis