---
title: Post 80 - Let's make it a triple! (doo doo doodoo doodoo)
date: 2024-12-29
tags:
    - pcap
    - wireshark
    - cyber chef
---
## Task 26, Day 20 `Traffic analysis` If you utter so much as one packet...  

When a machine is compromised in a C2 situation, a payload is put on the local machine. In addition to executing commands from the C2 server, it will send a beacon packet to the server every few seconds to minutes to let it know it is active and ready for commands.  

In Wireshark, can right-click on a packet and select follow stream to see all the requests and responses between a client and server, giving context to the communication.  

Instructions from C2 server vary depending on the actor's configuration, intention, and capabilities, but often fall into one of these categories:  
  - **Getting system information**: Gathering information through commands like `whoami` to learn about the compromised machine and environment before making next moves.
  - **Executing commands**: Can send direct commands to do things, but is less stealthy and easily draws attention.
  - **Downloading and executing payloads**: Sending additional payloads that contain additional functionality or tools.
  - **Exfiltrating data**: One of the most common objectives. Could involve instructions to steal valuable data like sensitive files, credentials, or personal information.  

### The Task
Uncover data from the pcap to answer questions.

### Recommended Stuff
Wireshark: the Basics, Wireshark: Packet Operations, and Wireshark: Traffic Analysis rooms.  

#### Sidepoint
I hate Ian Coldwater a little bit for making me do the feckin' song every time I see, hear, or say Wireshark (doo doo doodoo doodoo).