---
title: Post 69 - Is it really worth it?
date: 2024-12-17
tags:
    - grc
    - risk management
---
## Task 15, Day 9 `GRC` Nine o'clock, make GRC fun, tell no one.  

### Introduction to GRC
**GRC**: Governance, Risk, Compliance.  

Ensures an organization's security practices align with their personal, regulatory, and legal obligations. Some additional regulation examples:  
 - **Reserve Bank Regulations**: In most countries, banks have to adhere to security regulations from the country's reserve bank, ensuring a minimum seculirty level to protect funds and customer information.
 - **SWIFT CSP**: SWIFT network established the Customer Security Program (CSP), post breach, to set security standard in order to connect to network.
 - **Data Protection**: Banks have to adhere to security standards created by their data regulator (usually federal reserve) in order to protect customers' sensitive information.  

GRC team translates external standards to internal standards and ensures compliance of all different departments/teams in organization.  

#### Governance
Creates the framework for organizational information security decision making. Creates security strategy, policies, standards, and practices in alignment with the org's overall goal. Also defines roles and responsibilities everyone has to play to meet goal.  

#### Risk
Helps identify, assess, quantify, and mitigate risks to IT assets. Helps org understand potential threats and vulnerabilities and the impact they could have. Risk function helps reduce overall risk to acceptable levels and develops contingency plans in case something does happen.  

#### Compliance
Ensures the org adheres to all legal, regulatory, and industry standards (GDPR, NIST, ISO 27001, etc.)  

### Risk Assessments
Like reality checks for business. Connects cyber security to the bigger picture, protecting the whole business, not just the data, minimizing business risk. For most businesses, cyber security doesn't directly contribute to revenue generation or profit maximization, but helps avoid the risk of loss due to a cyber threat. A risk register helps track the progress of risk mitigation and all open risks. Performing an assessment involves:  

#### Identification of Risks
Identify factors that can cause revenue or reputation loss if there's a cyber attack. May include things like:
    - An unpatched web server
    - A high-privileged user account without proper security controls
    - A third-party vendor who might be infected by malware connecting to the org's network
    - A system where vendor support has ended but it's still in production  

Also need to quantify the threat. The likelihood of an incident involving an unpatched, air-gapped server locked in an inner closet is far different than a public-facing web server. Impact of a risk is also different between a main database server with confidential information and a development server with dummy data.

#### Assessing Likelihood to Each Risk
Quantify the risk with a number scale, typically 1 to 5. Can be refered to as the probability of materialization of a risk. Sample scale:  
  1. **Improbable**: So unlikey that it may never happen.  
  2. **Remote**: Very unlikely to happen, but still, there is a possiblity.  
  3. **Occasional**: Likely to happen once/sometime.  
  4. **Probable**: Likely to happen several times.  
  5. **Frequent**: Likely to happen often and regularly.  

Scale may not be uniform, or apply to every instance the same, but allows flexibility to suit each circumstance/network/device for different types of events.  

#### Assigning Impact to Each Risk
Need to consider the impact of each risk if realized. For instance, if this public-facing web server is unpatched and gets breached, what will be the impact to the org? Impacts are scaled 1 to 5 but scoring may be based on different methods (i.e. Common Vulnerability Scoring System [\CVSS], Cofidentiality/Integrity/Availability, etc.). Example scale description might be:  
  1. **Informational**: Very low impact, almost non-existent.  
  2. **Low**: Impacting a limited part of one area of the org's operations, with little to no revenue loss.  
  3. **Medium**: Impacting one part of the org's operations completely, with major revenue loss.  
  4. **High**: Impacting several parts of the org's operations, causing significant revenue loss.  
  5. **Critical**: Posing an existential threat to the org.  

#### Risk Ownership
Last step is to decide what to do about the risks identified, which means assigning priorities. This can be helped along by calculating a total risk score. The most simple method is mulitplying the likelihood of realisation by the impact if realized, but may use something more advanced like Microsoft's DREAD. Finally, remediation gets assigned to a team member that is responsible for additional investigation into the cost to remediate versus what could be lost if realized. If the cost of security is lower than the loss, we mitigate. If cost of security is higher, we may accept the risk, documenting it and reviewing periodically to see if the cost has changed.  

### Internal and Third-Party Assessments
Internal assessments are like checking your house for leaks or broken windows, looking for what you can improve within your own walls. Things they can help resolve:  
  - Identify weak spots in security.
  - Direct resources to the most important areas.
  - Stay compliant with security rules and regulations.  

If outsourcing items of business to other companies, orgs need to evaluate the risks of working with said vendors, suppliers, or partners. One weak link in the chain could bring everyone down. Third-party assessments may look to ensure the other org:  
  - Has good security measures to keep data safe.
  - Follow data protection rules.
  - Align with the security standards already in place.  

### The Task
Perform third-party assessments to find a vendor to work with. Brain refused to math at first.

### Recommended Stuff
Risk Management room.